Finished weather station display…

The finished weather station display is going to hang on my living room wall in place of the Acurite HD display; as such it has to look good.

Weather station display parts list:
Raspberry Pi Zero 2W running Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-bit)
Pisugar S Portable 1200mAh UPS
Dell Monitor (P2418HT), 1920X1080, LED backlight, Black
VideoSecu Monitor Wall Mount, VESA 75/100 Ultra Thin Mount Bracket
USB type-A to micro USB cable
USB type-B to micro USB cable
HDMI to HDMI mini cable
Clear electronic grade silicone
Some small tie wraps
 And the Acurite RF module and 6-wire cable I made to connect it to the Raspberry Pi GPIO

The monitor doesn’t have to have a touch screen; the monitor I used was left over from a previous project. It should have a USB hub in it with USB ports on both the
rear and the side to make connecting a keyboard (if/when necessary) easy. The reason for the Pisugar UPS is to keep everything, except the monitor, up and running 
during power outages.

The battery of the Pisugar UPS and the Acurite RF module were glued to the rear of the monitor using clear electronic grade silicone (make sure to allow it to cure for
24 hours before attaching anything else). The Pisugar UPS control board is attached to the Raspberry Pi Zero 2W using the hardware that comes with it.

The Raspberry Pi Zero 2W and Pisugar control board are attached to the Pisugar battery using the Pisugar control board’s strong magnet. Everything else is accomplished
using cables and tie wraps. The Pisugar UPS gets power from one of the USB ports (USB type-A) on the rear of the monitor. The Raspberry Pi’s USB port is connected to
the USB hub connection (USB type-B) on the rear of the monitor. And of course the Raspberry Pi’s HDMI port is connected to the monitor’s HDMI port. All the cabling is
bound up tight and held in place using tie wraps. I did have to cut off the monitor case’s cable routing plastic guides on the rear to make this all easier.

IMPORTANT NOTE: The antenna cable from the RF module must NOT be routed in parallel with the USB cables! It should cross the USB cables only at a right angle to avoid
interference. Also, the rear of the monitor faces towards the Acurite Atlas outside.

I was suffering from a lot of “bad packets” and had to move the antenna cable around to find a good location. While I was doing so I was using black electrical tape to
hold the antenna in place. Once I found a good location I just left it with the electrical tape holding it in place.

See picture “Monitor rear.jpg” for rear view after everything was in place.

Finally I put in a recessed AC outlet in the wall behind where the monitor hangs to give it a clean wall appearance.

See picture “Lots of rain.jpg” for final hanging view.
